---
published: false
---

Robart’s parents used to be an adventuring couple. They would go off on grand voyages, slaying beasts and looting treasure from the forgotten ruins of the past. And when they finally had enough and settled down, they had a son; his name was Robart. And Robart, from the moment he could understand their grand tales, desperately wanted to follow in their footsteps.

However, one unfortunate day, Robart’s parents were slaughtered by the new regime caught in a village resistance. Robart was still but a child when it happened, but it fueled him with newfound hatred and rage against the new king that took the lives of his parents.

However, his father’s neighborhood friend took Robart in as his own son. They, his father’s friend, and his wife, and their seven children, including the youngest, of the same age, named Farlan, became Robart’s new family. They were a farming family, for a few generations, and probably forever more. To Robart, his prospects at becoming a spell-slinging knight, a true adventurer, were beginning to fade away. He soon found that no one knew about the magical things; the adults felt it was too removed from their current reality to worry. “Let the new king’s adventurers figure it out. They got the coin.” And so he hated the wretched new king, the king that took his life of magic away.

One night, after a few days had gone by of fasting and sobbing, Robart staggered out into the open night sky and swore to the moon to exact his revenge on the new king and promised himself to become a Knight of the Code at whatever the cost. Farlan caught the tail end of his open prayer and asked him, innocently, what he was talking about. Robart shared his new world view with Farlan, who held onto and clung to every word of it (particularly at the mention of magic and demons). Farlan was fully invested in his new brother’s dream; they both yearned to know what is beyond the wilderness at the edge of town. And they, together, prayed and promised each other to set out on that mission.

But politics have changed since then. Teaching sessions were instituted for the young children, as demanded by the new leadership. These new laws gave the three youngest siblings, Farlan’s direct older brother, Tinnan, Farlan himself, and Robart. They received an education by a traveller from the Capitol.

Robart was initially excited about learning to sword fight and other useful survival tactics. But they instead learned to read and write. To calculate and to recount their history. To his dismay, the new instructor did not even like stories or adventurers.

Three of Farlan’s brothers got married and were given land from the outer borders of the farmstead. They each built their own homes and tended to their own families. One of Farlan’s brothers was apprenticed by the local blacksmith, who lost his last two sons and his wife to recent, devastating fire. He now is part of the blacksmith’s family and set to inherit the trade. The remaining brother, who was given the chance at an education, like Farlan and Robart did, became a scribe at the local lord’s manor. The eldest daughter, who remains unmarried, inherited the main farm when their father passed away and their mother was too weak and fragile to take on the necessary workload. She would remain there thusly until the end of her days, managing the farm and giving aid to the brothers and the larger town community when they needed help, which they often did. She was revered as a central pillar to their town’s newfound prosperity. But with all of the family splintering and following their own ways, the farm work was left to Farlan and Robart. Their sister could not take care of their mother and the farm alone.

And so here remains Farlan and Robart, who will soon graduate (or rather just excused) from their studies. They are not particularly interested in the educational books from the instructor. They devised their own practice sessions and training regiments, preparing themselves to battle (mostly theoretical) dragons and the likes, albeit imaginatively. Out of class, or whenever they could slip out of it, they would visit the local inn. Not to buy anything from the innkeeper, but to see if any new travellers came by and listen to their stories. The local inn saw seldom travellers and most kept were travelling farmers and traders in and out to the market. But when one day in a couple of months a curious fellow is witnessed at the inn, words spread and Robart and Farlan are there like flies to fresh dung. And they follow their every word. Their mannerisms and movements. Their style and equipment. And to fill the void between those times, they would venture out to the edge of the forest (plus a few hours in) and set up camp to tell fantastical stories of their future. Imaging the riches and discoveries they will make. And the revenge he will take.

But that is but a dream they once shared when they were young. Years have passed and Robart and Farlan remain at the farm, dutifully following their sister’s orders.
