# Donia
> Discovered: November 27, 2022
>
> Tags: Scene

INT. CHRISTMAS PHOTO SHOOT - DAY
DONIA and her DAD are at an indoor Christmas photo shoot. Donia has set up all the equipment and backdrops and is currently adjusting the camera. Her dad is sitting in the scene, waiting for their photo to be taken.

DONIA
Smile, Dad.

DAD
I am-- do you know how to use a camera?

DONIA
Hmmm (doubtful), okay.

DAD
Okay-- is this better?

Dad forces a wider smile.

DAD (CONT’D)
Did you press the button?

DONIA
Yes! Perfect! Hold still--

DAD
Yeah (not moving), well, hurry up and take it then.

DONIA
Okay, just a sec.

DAD
Done? Let’s go.

DONIA
Hold on! I need to go get someone--

DAD
Come on. I don’t have time for this.

DONIA
Dad. It’s Christmas. Didn’t we talk about this? Where do you need to go?

DAD
Home. My show’s on now, I think.

DONIA
Okay.

Donia takes a pause.

DONIA (CONT’D)
I thought you said you had time to take the Christmas photo.

DAD
I do. Just— just hurry up.

A beat.

DONIA
No.

DAD
Excuse me?

DONIA
If you don’t have time to do this, then don’t do it. I didn’t make you come here.

DAD
No, of course. I have time. Come on. Take the photo.

DONIA
Do you?

DAD
Get OVER here and TAKE IT!

DONIA
DAD! We don’t have to take the photo if you don’t want to.

DAD
I WANT to. Now TAKE it!

Silence.

DAD (CONT’D)
Are you deaf?-- why am I even HERE then?

DONIA
It’s Christmas, Dad. We used to do this every year--

DAD
So what? Forget the past, Donia. JUST TAKE THE DAMN PHOTO!

DONIA
NO!

DAD
Forget it. Take your photo some other time, when I’m not busy.

DONIA
YOU said you weren’t busy!

DAD
I am always busy. My time is very important. I don’t have all this free time on my hands like you.

DONIA
Okay, fine. Leave the--

DAD
I am leaving. You don’t tell me to leave.

DONIA
No, sorry, I mean--

DAD
No, shut up. You need to show respect! That’s why your Mom left you. You always want too much!

Dad gets up and leaves, slamming the door. Donia stands in silence, letting the moment dissipate. She takes a breath—

DONIA
Hey Mom. You can come in now.

MOM enters through the back door.

MOM
Oh hey!— where’d your Dad go?

DONIA
He left.

MOM
Oh, forget him. He has changed. He’s a bad person now and a little cuckoo in the head.

DONIA
I think he’s just still hurt.

MOM
He needs to grow up. Hurt about what? There’s nothing wrong— do you like my new sweater?

DONIA
You don’t think arguing every day, that there’s anything wrong?

MOM
So what? Forget the past, Donia. Just come here and take the photo.

Mom sits in the scene, posing for her photo.

DONIA
Why does no one in this family want to just talk—

Mom drops the charade, still sitting down.

MOM
I’m talking, aren’t I? I’m just saying I did nothing wrong.

DONIA
I’m not saying you did anything wrong— but why can’t we fix it?

MOM
Why do I have to fix it? Sure I did things— but he’s the one still angry and upset. I’ve apologized already. Why are you blaming me?

DONIA
I’m not blaming anyone—

MOM
Really? You think he’s right to be angry?

DONIA
LISTEN! I’m just saying—

MOM
Don’t raise your voice at me! I’m your mother—

DONIA
I’M JUST SAYING—

MOM
MOTHERFUCKER! YOU SHOW ME RESPECT!

Silence. Donia is shaken.

DONIA
I’m... sorry.

MOM
You better. I’m your mother. I’m not your friend. You don’t raise your voice at me.

Silence.

DONIA
You’re angry.

MOM
Because you both make me angry. You two just love arguing— you are just like your Dad. You can’t admit you’re wrong.

DONIA
But you made him angry too--

MOM
That’s not my problem. I don’t care. I want what I want; he should just take it and be a man for once— don’t bring up the past. I don’t want to talk about it.
(a beat)
And if you’ve learned nothing at all, remember this Donia: never get married. Don’t be stupid. Men only want sex.

A beat. Donia is stuck. Mom stares flatly at her, stern with no emotions.

MOM (CONT’D)
I’m leaving.

DONIA
Okay. You didn’t want to get dinner later?

MOM
No. I’m going back to New York.
(a beat)
And I’m not coming back. I left you the house keys in your basket. Do what you want with it.

DONIA
Wait. But-- hold on-- the house? Does Gina know? What about your stuff?

MOM
Do whatever you want; I don’t care. And your sister didn’t pick up this morning. Tell her yourself.

Mom gets up and starts preparing to leave.

DONIA
So that’s it then? Did you find a place to stay?

MOM
I’m not an idiot like your Dad. I can take care of myself. My flight’s tomorrow.

DONIA
Then what about Dad? What about Gina? What about Christmas?— what am I going to do now?

Mom stops and looks at Donia. Donia is tearing up, but she stands straight. Mom’s expression turned soft.

MOM
Hey.

Mom opens her arms and invites Donia for a hug. Donia goes over to hug her.

MOM (CONT’D)
It’s okay. This is just life, Donia. No one can live together for this long; they are all just living a lie. You have to be the strong one and move on.

DONIA
But I thought... I thought you wanted to stay here.

MOM
I do. You both are my daughters and I love you both very much. You are the only reason I stayed all this time.

DONIA
Then why are you leaving?

A beat. Mom gently, but firmly, pushes her away.

MOM
You’re a tough cookie, Donia. You will figure this out like you always do. Be a good girl.

And she gets up and leaves. Donia is left standing in the middle of the room with tears down her face.
