# Legend of the Frail Prince
> Discovered: December 15, 2021
>
> Tags: Outline

Of legend, there was once a son, youngest of 8 children, of the Great Evoker. Each of his siblings were extraordinary Evokers, each with their own strings of legends and myths from all across the land. The deeds and accomplishments they have achieved to help their people is uncountable. But the youngest of the Great Evoker's children, Thalmet, did not possess the Evoker's Ember. In gatherings and celebrations, Thalmet would often be relegated to the side as the crowd would make way for the great heroes of the land. As much as he yearned to be known and revered by the people just like his older siblings, it was not meant to be. After years of growing resentment turns sour and Thalmet would strike off on his own, not to be seen for a very long time.

* * *

In one version of the legend, Thalmet actually did possess the Ember. An Ember so strong that would rival the Great Evoker. But unlike his siblings, Thalmet has more devious plans of self-interest and often went against the Great Evoker's training. After several incidents, this would lead the Great Evoker to seclude Thalmet from the greater public and restrict him from leaving the homestead. Until one day, Thalmet, in secret, managed to open a Cut and sustain it for a long time as revenge against the people who have treated him so poorly. Some, who know of the finer limitations of the Evokers, believe this lasted at most a couple of hours, but many believe this lasted weeks, if not days. But in either case, though it arrived beasts and monstrosities never before seen that scattered to terrorize the land. And at the head of this newfound army of Wildbeasts is now Thalmet, who escapes into the Barrens, never to be seen again. This terror swept across the land. And one by one, each of his siblings succumbed to the overwhelming forces, who are no match for him. And so too does the Great Evoker himself. And with this, the land plunges into the Dark Ages we know today. And Thalmet, thusly, is crowned the Last Prince of the Evokers. In many versions, Thalmet does not die of old age as time moved on.

* * *

In another version, Thalmet did not possess any powers, but with his extreme cunning and intelligence, he worked to uncover the secrets of the Ember. Perhaps through study, he can reveal its powers and understand it, perhaps harness it. And after many years of research, where many failed, Thalmet succeeded and created a device that allowed him to perform the Cut. Thalmet invited the Great Evoker and his siblings to witness the device, but when they did, and saw its disrupting and unrivaled potential, they were reviled and demanded it to be destroyed. Thalmet, furious with this decision but unable to withstand the might of all his siblings and the Great Evoker, destroys it. The remaining of his work burned. And Thalmet kept under watchful eye of the Great Evoker. But still, once again, Thalmet begins construction of another in secret, slowly making progress in the background, as he is tasked by the Great Evoker with numerous projects around the world to keep him busy. After many years, as Thalmet eventually moved to a wayside village to help with the local construction of a bridge, which would last for millennia and become one of the last remnants of this era, his secret is once again discovered. But when his siblings arrived, it was too late. Thalmet, using the new device, has performed the Cut. And it's power was so great, it unleashed untold monstrosities into the land. The Great Evokers battled hordes of Wildbeasts for several days. And with great sorrow, the Great Evoker slays Thalmet and closes the Cut themselves. The Great Evoker died that day, giving their life to seal the Cut. And the remaining 7 siblings would dedicate the rest of their lives to eradicating the darkness that escaped. Some say, Thalmet did not die that day and it was he who slayed the Great Evoker. And with the device, before the siblings arrived to the scene, Thalmet would flee to the Barrens, never to be seen again.

* * *

In many versions, Thalmet continues to live in the Barrens to this day. It is often said that new Evokers are still being hunted by the Wildbeasts, Thalmet's minions, to be dragged to his lair where he feeds off their energy, restoring his youthfulness. Of those who tried to avenge the Great Evoker and quell this darkness, who venture into the Barrens in search of Thalmet's lair, are only heard of but never to be seen again. Yet people have said to have caught glimpses of Thalmet, a now gaunt, tall husk, bony and frail, but still walking. He holds a cane with a glass head. Some say it contains the eyes of his siblings and of the Great Evoker themselves. And from now on, he is known as the Frail Prince.
- The Truth Maybe? → Thalmet does have the Ember and worked alongside the Great Evoker in many studies of the Ember to better understand where it comes from. He was not interested in glory, like his siblings, and worked in peace with his parents. Why sometimes monsters are "drawn" to recent Ember activity. And why only those who share the same blood? But the Great Evoker had other plans. They wanted to control these creatures and, to some extent, they succeeded. They were able to communicate, primitively, with these beasts. Thalmet would eventually discover this, but it was too late. The Great Evoker would trap Thalmet and his Ember would be "extracted" using tools scavenged by the Wildbeasts from another dimension. Thalmet would be severely weakened, but unable to kill their own child, the Great Evoker keeps him alive. Using the many technologies discovered the Great Evoker was able to fish out from the other dimensions, they were able to achieve immortality and remain alive to this day. Thalmet watched his siblings from afar, slain by the onslaught of strategic advances to claim resources for the Great Evoker's new plans. The Great Evoker has much greater plans to see the other side. Thalmet on the other hand, over the many, many years, eventually requests to leave the premises and live off on his own (away from the life-giving source). As Thalmet returns to civilization, often traveling as a hermit, there is always a spy around the corner reporting his every move back (of which Thalmet is well aware). But Thalmet hopes to live peaceful, idyllic life, of what he knows soon will be over.

* * *

- Common Thoughts - Some believe Evokers are bad luck as their presence provoke the wrath of Thalmet or that they are accidents or corruptors of the Divine Plan from the Gods. Many more believe that Evokers are detached from reality and cannot be trusted.
- Cults of the Frail Prince - Some believe that performing offerings in Thalmet's name will grant them immortality and or protection from the Wildbeasts. They actively seek out Evokers to kill them in order to honor the Divine Will that Evokers are the bane of human existence and that they are the cause for the oncoming of Wildbeasts.
    - Initiate - Those who have performed their First Rite (a sacrificial tribute of blood). (symbolized by the Frail Hand). Only after they perform the Second Rite, can they be Devoted to another role.
    - Acolyte - Field agents to search and report Evokers. (symbolized by the Eyes of Thalmet)
    - Censer - Master and reciter of the ritual. They recite the Rites and give Cense. (symbolized by the Mouth of Thalmet)
    - Devoker - The blades of the Order. Trained Evoker hunters. They always work in pairs. Each of the pair is trained in either the Left and Right skills (symbolized by the Left or Right Half of the Frail Body).
